# My Notes

## Component Based Framework
1. There is a root component.
2. Components can contain other components.
3. Components contain the HTML and the JavaScript.
4. Components get referenced by their name header-section => <header-section>...</header-section>

## Setup

* Download NodeJS (which comes with NPM)  
	* node -v  
	* npm -v  
* Download Angular CLI
	* npm install -g @angular/cli
	* ng -v
* IDE - Java Brains use Visual Studio Code

## New Project

* ng new <project-name>
* ng serve (Run the bare bones app that got created when we called ng new)
* localhost:4200

## New Component

* ng generate component hello-world
* Generates 4 files under a new folder - .html, .css, .ts, .spec.ts
* Updates the app.module.ts file under the root app folder. Adds a new import
* The selector is in the .ts file -> selector: 'app-hello-world'
* ng serve
* Now add the component to app.component.html -> <app-hello-world></app-hello-world>

## Component Lifecycle

https://angular.io/guide/lifecycle-hooks

## Project Struture

* app/index.html - <app-root></app-root>
* app/app.component.html|css|ts
* app/app.modules.ts
	* app/app.component.spec.ts - for unit testing
	* app/my-component/my-component.html|css|ts
	* app/my-component/my-component.spec.ts
	
## Syntax Gotchas

* Event Handling. Calling a function from component.html to component.ts
	* <button (click)="someFunction()">...</button>
* Passing objects between components
	* <app-address-card [user]="user"></app-address-card>
* Expression Language
	* Data Binding - Use {{componentVar}} or {{componentFunction()}}
* Two Way Data Binding (Banana in a box syntax)
	* [] Component to view
	* () View to component
	* <input type="text" [(ngModel)]="componentProp">

## Component CSS

* These rules will only be applied to a given component
* Angular applies a posfix to the HTML elements and to the CSS rule names to achieve this restriction
* EG .address-card[_ngcontent-c3] => Assuming c3 due to the fact that the address-card component was the 3rd component we created in the app

## Two Way Data Binding

* Used much?
* To enable update app.modules.ts
	* Add a new import - import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
	* Update the imports section of the NgModule declaration - FormsModule
* Add form field - <input type="text" [(ngModel)]="componentProp">
* Also show value on page - {{componentProp}}

## Multiple Modules

* An app can contain multiple modules
* By default we get one module called app
* ng generate module <module-name>
* ng generate component [module-name/]<component-name>
* Source modules need to export the relevant components
* Destination modules need to import the source module

# Notes generated by ng new

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 6.1.1.

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/).

## Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).

My Notes